The player can load in and choose between singleplayer (playing against an algorithm) or multiplayer. In either instance, the player and the opponent are given a semi-randomized "matrix" of expected outcomes for each possible pairing in a score between 2-18 - this should look something like a visual matrix with numbers 2-4 highlighted in red, 5-8 highlighted in orange, 9-11 highlighted in yellow, 12-15 highlighted in light green, and 16-18 highlighted in dark green. 

The matrixes for each possible matchup should be similar for the opponent (though reversed) but not identical - a random variance of 1-5 in the score is incorporated.

The process in which pairings are done is as such: each team has 8 armies and there are 8 possible tables. 

Step 1:
Team A and Team B secretly choose their defender (one army from their pool) and reveal them simultaneously. After that, Team A and team B secretly choose their two attackers (also armies from their pool) for the given defender and reveal them simultaneously. Team A takes the two attackers given by team B, and secretly chooses which one is refused. Team B does the same with the two attackers selected by team A. The refused Attackers are revealed simultaneously and return to the pool of available armies. Captains roll off to determine which team will get to choose its table first. That team gains the “table choice” token. At this point, two defenders know their attackers; this identifies two games. Log this on the score sheet. The Team with the “table choice” token lets his defender choose the table first followed by the defender who's team didn’t have the table choice token. Two tables are now no longer available. 

Step 2:
Repeat Step 1 with the difference that the Team without the “table choice” token now becomes the owner of this token throughout this pairing step. 

Step 3: Change “table choice” token again during this pairing step. This step will identify the remaining 4 games: 2 games “attacker vs. defender”, 1 game between refused attackers and 1 game with the remaining players. Team A and team B secretly choose their defender and reveal them simultaneously.  After that, Team A and team B secretly choose their two attackers for the given defender and reveal them simultaneously. At this point there is only one last player available remaining in each team. These are automatically designated as being the last matchup. Each team immediately notes this on their round pairing log-sheet. Team A takes the two attackers given by team B, and secretly chooses which one is refused. Team B does the same with the two attackers selected by team A. The refused Attackers are revealed simultaneously. They will automatically be designated to play the 7th game of the round and face each other. Defenders know their attackers; this identifies two matches. Log this on the score sheet. Team with the “table choice” token let his defender choose the table and then teams alternate choosing tables, starting with the defending players first.